# SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING DESIGN IN COSMETIC INDUSTRY 

This work deals with the role of environmentally friendly packaging and its importance. It answers the question of the impact of packaging on the environment and proposes an effective solution. The first part acquaints the reader with the chosen topic and focuses on the theoretical part of the issue and the importance of environmentally friendly design. It then talks about the principles of this design associated with the actual use in practice. The second part focuses on the findings of the market research in the organic cosmetics industry and introduces readers to foreign cosmetic brands that have successfully implemented environmental friendliness in their business. In the third phase, we learn the details of the selected case study. We follow the history and philosophy of the chosen Czech aromatherapeutic brand , its goals and mission, explore the market in the sector, brand competitors and then come up with a proposal for environmentally friendly packaging for their products as well as the possibility of re-designing the brand's visual style with emphasis on the implementation of more modern elements. This section also contains a list of selected environmentally friendly materials for packaging design and the possibility of improving the company's message and slogan. The fourth phase of the work introduces us to the part of the practical application of the theoretical basis of environmentally friendly packaging to the selected Czech brand of natural aromatherapy cosmetics. It identifies the key elements and principles of the existing design that we want to change, and comes primarily with a new packaging design and secondarily with a proposal for a possible re-design of the visual style. Everything is based on pictorial examples of created designs. List of selected environmentally friendly materials, visual appearance, the possibility of improving the company's message and slogan. In the final part there is also a questionnaire examining the overview of the potential customer and his awareness of the mentioned topic.


## Goal of the thesis and choice of the given topic

When deciding on the theme of my work, I wanted to come up with a topic that I would be personally close to and which could not only enrich its reader, but also myself during the research and deeper study of the subject. The main motivation and a determining impulse for the creation of my bachelor's thesis therefore became my love for nature and a personal effort for a gentle approach to it, which I then combined with my interest in natural cosmetics.
Today, almost all of us are aware of the global challenge we face as humanity. The crisis in which our planet finds itself can only be averted if we unite collectively and, in the shortest possible time, apply changes to our daily lives that are not even too great for us individually, but are enormous on a global scale and for the possibility of the existence of future life here, are completely vital. I consider the creation of this work to be a kind of mission to participate in informing and educating the public. Its aim is to pass on the words already spoken and to attach my own thoughts and ideas to them . The work invites the reader to think and consider the importance of necessary changes, stepping out of their comfort zone and deviating from ignorance. Collective thinking that takes into account the impact of our daily activities on the environment, the involvement of human creativity and the application of their knowledge are the only way to the future. Thinking "green" is no longer a matter of hippies, but a necessity for each of us. I chose the study of graphic design as an opportunity to learn an effective use of this relatively new powerful medium, which I perceive as a tool with the ability to move and change the masses. I want to stand for what I believe in.



