# SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING DESIGN IN COSMETIC INDUSTRY

**"There is a great need for the introduction of new values in our society, where bigger is not necessarily better, where slower can be faster, and where less can be more."**

This bachelor thesis deals with a topic of a sustainable packaging design with a focus on packaging design for a cosmetic industry. Furthermore it is primarily focused on bio cosmetic brands which are, in my opinion, the companies that often seek innovations and new approaches in a matter of sustainability. Many of such companies take interest in minimizing the environmental impact of their production. This thesis stands as an introduction of the given theme to the reader as well as it examines the usage options of the sustainable materials for creating eco-friendly packaging. Equally it attempts to motivate both sides of the trade, the producer and the customer, to support the production of environmentally sustainable packaging and to also become a part of this new industrial-design revolution wave. This work handles the sole question of the importance of sustainable packaging and also lays down options and suggestions for an effective implementation of the spoken onto the production of existing and future brands. The case study section then focuses on a specific design proposal of such packaging for a Czech bio cosmetic brand Nobilis Tillia. The terms “environmentally sustainable”, “sustainable” and “eco-friendly” will appear throughout the whole thesis and have the same meaning.
**Keywords:** Packaging, environmental sustainability, natural cosmetics, visual communication, visual style
